The goal of the project was to predict ratings of users based on previous rating of other users. The data gives information about each track, user, artist, genre, and album. Albums have artists and genres while tracks have artists, albums, and genres. The dataset is small for users only 43 are listed which makes predictions difficult. The other problem is most tracks don't have a user who rated them.

The method I used to create ratings was to roll all of the results into genres. This was done by identifying the genres of each track or album the score was then divided by ten and added to the total rating for the genre. After all records for a user are processed the average score for each genre are written into a text file. Using genres helps match users where they are interested in the same type of music but who haven't heard the same songs. The other helpful piece is replacing missing values with a zero makes more sense with genres because if someone hasn't heard a genre they are most likely not interested. This fixes some of the problems with identifying similar users.

After creating the genre scores clustering can be run. I used K-Means clustering to create the clusters that can be used in the model. K-Means was used because it is partitional by nature which makes it easy to add a new point to the cluster. K-Means was run with a value of 5 to create a reasonable number of clusters for the 43 users. If more users existed a higher value of K could be used to create more fine grained model. The clusters created exist in the Clusters.txt file attached to this document.

The final step should I have had time to complete it was to apply the model. Here I ran into some problems. First was how to give a track a score when the associated cluster has no data for the track in question. The second problem is the fact that some of the users in the cluster don't have a value for the track in question. The method I was planning on using was to determine the average value for a track with the group. If that didn't work the value assigned would be the value for the genre. Finally if there was no data for the genre it would show an insufficient data message. These were some of the problems I didn't have sufficient time to fix.
